Foundations of AI
=================

Philosophy
----------

- Can formal rules draw valid conclusions?
- How does the mind arise from the brain?
- Where does knowledge come from?
- How does knowledge lead to action?

Computers
---------

- Date back hundreds or thousands of years in their most basic form
- Can determine results by following rules
- Appear to be wholly different than our own minds
- Can solve many of the same problem, such as multiplication

Dualism
-------

- Distinction between mind and matter
- A purely physical mind would not have truly free will
- Descartes proposed that there is a part of our mind that exists outside of nature

Materialism
-----------

- The mind operating by the laws of physics is the mind
- There is no separate mind that exists outside of nature

Knowledge aquisition
--------------------

- Empiricism - Locke - "Nothing is in the understand which was not first in the senses"
- Induction - Rules are derived from repeated observations

Logical Positivism
------------------

- Wittgenstein and Russell
- All knowledge understood as linked logical theories ultimately linked back to **observational sentences**
- Observational sentences correspond directly to sensory input

Confirmation Theory
-------------------

- Carnap and Hempel
- Belief in a statement should be determined based on logical connections to observational sentences that support or discredit them

Actions
-------

- Belief is often connected to action
- If our next action immediately brings us to our goal, our deicision is simple
- What if an action doesn't bring us directly to a goal?

Utility
-------

- Function to measure the expected value of an outcome

Utilitarianism
--------------

- Write and wrong is determined by outcomes

Deontological Ethics
--------------------

- The "right thing" is determined by social rules, not outcomes

Mathematics
-----------

- What are the formal rules for decsion making?
- What is computable?
- How do we reason in the face of uncertainty?

Formal Logic
------------

- Provide a set of rules that govern what can and can't be deduced
- Boolean logic

Probability
-----------

- Generalizes formal logic to unknown outcomes
- Bayes proposed a method to update probabilities given new evidence

Statistics
----------

- Combines probability theory with data to derive knowledge from
